docs/video-stream-ssl-fix.md, before:

# Fixing the Video Stream Black Screen (SSL / Reverse Proxy)

After setting up the TLS reverse proxy on the Grafana VM, the claw site loads
and works — except the video stream shows a **black screen**. This guide walks
through deploying the fix.

## What went wrong

Two things break the video when you put the claw behind an SSL reverse proxy:

1. **WHEP signaling can't reach MediaMTX.** The Grafana VM's nginx was
   configured to proxy `/stream/` directly to MediaMTX on `PI_LAN_IP:8889`.
   But MediaMTX binds to `127.0.0.1:8889` (localhost only), so the connection
   is refused.

2. **WebRTC ICE candidates are unreachable.** MediaMTX only advertised local
   IPs (`127.0.0.1`, LAN IP) in ICE candidates. Browsers on the internet can't
   reach those addresses, so the WebRTC data channel never connects.

## Prerequisites

- The Grafana VM TLS proxy is already set up (per `docs/brownrice-ssl-proxy.md`)
- SSH access to both the **Grafana VM** and the **Raspberry Pi**
- The updated config files from this repo (branch `claude/fix-video-stream-ssl-ikqMM` or merged to main)

## Step 1: Deploy the fixed nginx config (Grafana VM)

The key change: `/stream/` now proxies to FastAPI on port **8000** (which has a
built-in MediaMTX proxy) instead of directly to MediaMTX on port 8889.

**SSH into the Grafana VM** and run:

```bash
# Back up the current config
sudo cp /etc/nginx/sites-available/claw.thecastlefuncenter.com \
        /etc/nginx/sites-available/claw.thecastlefuncenter.com.bak

# Edit the config
sudo nano /etc/nginx/sites-available/claw.thecastlefuncenter.com
```

Find the `/stream/` location block and replace it with:

```nginx
# -- MediaMTX WebRTC (WHEP signaling) --
# Route through FastAPI's built-in stream proxy (stream_proxy.py)
# which forwards to MediaMTX on localhost:8889.  We cannot hit
# MediaMTX directly because it binds to 127.0.0.1.
location /stream/ {
    proxy_pass http://PI_LAN_IP:8000;
    proxy_http_version 1.1;
    proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
    proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";
    proxy_set_header Host $host;
    proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto https;
    proxy_read_timeout 86400;
}
```

> **Important:** Replace `PI_LAN_IP` with your Pi's actual LAN IP (e.g.
> `192.168.1.50`). Note there is **no trailing `/`** after `:8000` — this
> preserves the full URI so `/stream/cam/whep` reaches FastAPI correctly.

Alternatively, you can copy the full config from the repo:

```bash
# From your local machine (where you cloned the repo):
scp deploy/nginx/claw-proxy.conf USER@GRAFANA_VM_IP:/tmp/claw-proxy.conf

# On the Grafana VM:
sudo cp /tmp/claw-proxy.conf /etc/nginx/sites-available/claw.thecastlefuncenter.com
# Then edit the file to replace PI_LAN_IP with the actual Pi LAN IP
sudo sed -i 's/PI_LAN_IP/192.168.1.50/g' /etc/nginx/sites-available/claw.thecastlefuncenter.com
```

Test and reload:

```bash
sudo nginx -t && sudo systemctl reload nginx
```

## Step 2: Deploy the updated MediaMTX config (Raspberry Pi)

The updated MediaMTX config adds ICE NAT traversal so internet browsers can
establish WebRTC connections.

**SSH into the Raspberry Pi** and run:

```bash
# Back up current config
sudo cp /etc/mediamtx.yml /etc/mediamtx.yml.bak

# Copy the updated config from the repo
# (use mediamtx.yml for Pi Camera, mediamtx-usb.yml for USB cameras)
sudo cp deploy/mediamtx.yml /etc/mediamtx.yml
```

Or if you prefer to edit manually, add these lines to `/etc/mediamtx.yml`:

```yaml
# ICE connectivity for internet access through a reverse proxy.
#
# webrtcAdditionalHosts tells MediaMTX to include the public IP/domain
# in ICE host candidates so remote browsers can reach the WebRTC UDP
# endpoint.  Without this, ICE candidates only contain 127.0.0.1 and
# LAN IPs which are unreachable from the internet → black video.
#
# Set this to your public domain or IP address:
webrtcAdditionalHosts:
  - claw.thecastlefuncenter.com

# Pin all WebRTC UDP traffic to a single port instead of random
# ephemeral ports.  This allows a single port-forward rule on your
# router (UDP 8189 → Pi LAN IP) instead of requiring a full-cone NAT.
webrtcICEUDPMuxAddress: :8189
```

Restart MediaMTX:

```bash
sudo systemctl restart mediamtx
```

Verify it's running:

```bash
sudo systemctl status mediamtx
# Should show "active (running)"
```

## Step 3: Forward UDP port on the router

WebRTC streams video over UDP. The browser needs to reach the Pi's MediaMTX
UDP port through your router.

**On your router's admin page**, add a port forwarding rule:

| Protocol | External Port | Internal IP | Internal Port |
|----------|---------------|-------------|---------------|
| UDP      | 8189          | Pi LAN IP   | 8189          |

Replace "Pi LAN IP" with your Pi's actual LAN address (e.g. `192.168.1.50`).

## Step 4: Open the firewall on the Pi

```bash
sudo ufw allow 8189/udp
sudo ufw status
# Should show 8189/udp ALLOW Anywhere
```

## Step 5: Verify it works

### Test WHEP signaling (from any machine)

```bash
curl -v -X POST https://claw.thecastlefuncenter.com/stream/cam/whep \
  -H "Content-Type: application/sdp" \
  -d "v=0"
```

**Expected:** You should get an HTTP response (likely 400 or 200 with SDP) —
**not** a connection refused or 502 error. Any response from MediaMTX means the
proxy chain is working.

### Test in the browser

1. Open `https://claw.thecastlefuncenter.com` in Chrome or Firefox
2. The video stream should appear (not a black screen)
3. Add `?debug` to the URL to see the stream status overlay with connection details

### Test from LAN (should still work)

```bash
# Direct Pi access should still work for LAN users
curl http://PI_LAN_IP:8000/stream/cam/whep \
  -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/sdp" -d "v=0"
```

## Troubleshooting

### Still getting a black screen?

**Check the proxy chain step by step:**

```bash
# 1. Is MediaMTX running on the Pi?
ssh PI "sudo systemctl status mediamtx"

# 2. Can FastAPI reach MediaMTX? (run on the Pi)
ssh PI "curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8889/cam/whep -H 'Content-Type: application/sdp' -d 'v=0'"

# 3. Can FastAPI's stream proxy handle the request? (run on the Pi)
ssh PI "curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8000/stream/cam/whep -H 'Content-Type: application/sdp' -d 'v=0'"

# 4. Can the Grafana VM reach FastAPI? (run on the Grafana VM)
ssh GRAFANA "curl -X POST http://PI_LAN_IP:8000/stream/cam/whep -H 'Content-Type: application/sdp' -d 'v=0'"

# 5. Does the public URL work?
curl -X POST https://claw.thecastlefuncenter.com/stream/cam/whep -H "Content-Type: application/sdp" -d "v=0"
```

Whichever step fails is where the problem is.

### WHEP works but video is still black?

The signaling (HTTP) works but WebRTC (UDP) is blocked. Check:

- **Router port forwarding**: Is UDP 8189 forwarded to the Pi?
- **Firewall**: Is `ufw` allowing UDP 8189? (`sudo ufw status`)
- **MediaMTX config**: Does `webrtcAdditionalHosts` contain the public domain?
- **MediaMTX config**: Is `webrtcICEUDPMuxAddress` set to `:8189`?
- **ISP/NAT issues**: Some ISPs block inbound UDP. Try from a different network.

### Browser console errors?

Open DevTools (F12) → Console tab. Look for:
- `ICE connection state: failed` → UDP path is blocked (router/firewall)
- `WHEP POST failed` or `502` → Proxy chain broken (check steps above)
- `net::ERR_CONNECTION_REFUSED` → nginx not proxying `/stream/` correctly

## Architecture diagram

```
Internet Browser
    │
    │ HTTPS (port 443)
    ▼
Grafana VM (nginx - TLS termination)
    │
    │ HTTP (port 8000, LAN)
    ▼
Raspberry Pi (FastAPI)
    │
    │ HTTP (localhost:8889)
    ▼
MediaMTX (WHEP signaling)
    │
    │ WebRTC (UDP 8189, via router port forward)
    ▼
Internet Browser (direct UDP to Pi)
```

The HTTP signaling goes through the full proxy chain. Once the WebRTC
connection is negotiated, video data flows directly over UDP between the
browser and MediaMTX on the Pi.

Commit message:

Update deployment guide: USB camera detection and 405 troubleshooting
Add camera type detection commands, clarify USB vs RPi camera config
selection, and document the 405 error (means wrong camera config for
your hardware). Based on live debugging where mediamtx was running
rpiCamera config on a USB camera Pi.

https://claude.ai/code/session_01314s2qCLY9jgFZu4PMPpjR

docs/video-stream-ssl-fix.md, after:

# Fixing the Video Stream Black Screen (SSL / Reverse Proxy)

After setting up the TLS reverse proxy on the Grafana VM, the claw site loads
and works — except the video stream shows a **black screen**. This guide walks
through deploying the fix.

## What went wrong

Two things break the video when you put the claw behind an SSL reverse proxy:

1. **WHEP signaling can't reach MediaMTX.** The Grafana VM's nginx was
   configured to proxy `/stream/` directly to MediaMTX on `PI_LAN_IP:8889`.
   But MediaMTX binds to `127.0.0.1:8889` (localhost only), so the connection
   is refused.

2. **WebRTC ICE candidates are unreachable.** MediaMTX only advertised local
   IPs (`127.0.0.1`, LAN IP) in ICE candidates. Browsers on the internet can't
   reach those addresses, so the WebRTC data channel never connects.

## Prerequisites

- The Grafana VM TLS proxy is already set up (per `docs/brownrice-ssl-proxy.md`)
- SSH access to both the **Grafana VM** and the **Raspberry Pi**
- The updated config files from this repo (branch `claude/fix-video-stream-ssl-ikqMM` or merged to main)

## Step 1: Deploy the fixed nginx config (Grafana VM)

The key change: `/stream/` now proxies to FastAPI on port **8000** (which has a
built-in MediaMTX proxy) instead of directly to MediaMTX on port 8889.

**SSH into the Grafana VM** and run:

```bash
# Back up the current config
sudo cp /etc/nginx/sites-available/claw.thecastlefuncenter.com \
        /etc/nginx/sites-available/claw.thecastlefuncenter.com.bak

# Edit the config
sudo nano /etc/nginx/sites-available/claw.thecastlefuncenter.com
```

Find the `/stream/` location block and replace it with:

```nginx
# -- MediaMTX WebRTC (WHEP signaling) --
# Route through FastAPI's built-in stream proxy (stream_proxy.py)
# which forwards to MediaMTX on localhost:8889.  We cannot hit
# MediaMTX directly because it binds to 127.0.0.1.
location /stream/ {
    proxy_pass http://PI_LAN_IP:8000;
    proxy_http_version 1.1;
    proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
    proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";
    proxy_set_header Host $host;
    proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto https;
    proxy_read_timeout 86400;
}
```

> **Important:** Replace `PI_LAN_IP` with your Pi's actual LAN IP (e.g.
> `192.168.1.50`). Note there is **no trailing `/`** after `:8000` — this
> preserves the full URI so `/stream/cam/whep` reaches FastAPI correctly.

Alternatively, you can copy the full config from the repo:

```bash
# From your local machine (where you cloned the repo):
scp deploy/nginx/claw-proxy.conf USER@GRAFANA_VM_IP:/tmp/claw-proxy.conf

# On the Grafana VM:
sudo cp /tmp/claw-proxy.conf /etc/nginx/sites-available/claw.thecastlefuncenter.com
# Then edit the file to replace PI_LAN_IP with the actual Pi LAN IP
sudo sed -i 's/PI_LAN_IP/192.168.1.50/g' /etc/nginx/sites-available/claw.thecastlefuncenter.com
```

Test and reload:

```bash
sudo nginx -t && sudo systemctl reload nginx
```

## Step 2: Deploy the updated MediaMTX config (Raspberry Pi)

The updated MediaMTX config adds ICE NAT traversal so internet browsers can
establish WebRTC connections.

**SSH into the Raspberry Pi** and run:

```bash
# Back up current config
sudo cp /etc/mediamtx.yml /etc/mediamtx.yml.bak

# Detect your camera type first:
rpicam-hello --list-cameras 2>&1 | head -3   # RPi camera?
ls /dev/video*                                 # USB camera?

# Copy the correct config:
# For RPi Camera module:
sudo cp ~/ECLAW/deploy/mediamtx.yml /etc/mediamtx.yml

# For USB camera (most common — use this if unsure):
sudo cp ~/ECLAW/deploy/mediamtx-usb.yml /etc/mediamtx.yml
```

Or if you prefer to edit manually, add these lines to `/etc/mediamtx.yml`:

```yaml
# ICE connectivity for internet access through a reverse proxy.
#
# webrtcAdditionalHosts tells MediaMTX to include the public IP/domain
# in ICE host candidates so remote browsers can reach the WebRTC UDP
# endpoint.  Without this, ICE candidates only contain 127.0.0.1 and
# LAN IPs which are unreachable from the internet → black video.
#
# Set this to your public domain or IP address:
webrtcAdditionalHosts:
  - claw.thecastlefuncenter.com

# Pin all WebRTC UDP traffic to a single port instead of random
# ephemeral ports.  This allows a single port-forward rule on your
# router (UDP 8189 → Pi LAN IP) instead of requiring a full-cone NAT.
webrtcICEUDPMuxAddress: :8189
```

Restart MediaMTX:

```bash
sudo systemctl restart mediamtx
```

Verify it's running and the camera is detected:

```bash
sudo systemctl status mediamtx
# Should show "active (running)"

# Check for camera errors:
sudo journalctl -u mediamtx --no-pager -n 20
# If you see "camera_create(): selected camera is not available" you
# deployed the WRONG config (RPi camera config but USB camera connected,
# or vice versa). Switch to the correct one and restart.
```

## Step 3: Forward UDP port on the router

WebRTC streams video over UDP. The browser needs to reach the Pi's MediaMTX
UDP port through your router.

**On your router's admin page**, add a port forwarding rule:

| Protocol | External Port | Internal IP | Internal Port |
|----------|---------------|-------------|---------------|
| UDP      | 8189          | Pi LAN IP   | 8189          |

Replace "Pi LAN IP" with your Pi's actual LAN address (e.g. `192.168.1.50`).

## Step 4: Open the firewall on the Pi

```bash
sudo ufw allow 8189/udp
sudo ufw status
# Should show 8189/udp ALLOW Anywhere
```

## Step 5: Verify it works

### Test WHEP signaling (from any machine)

```bash
curl -v -X POST https://claw.thecastlefuncenter.com/stream/cam/whep \
  -H "Content-Type: application/sdp" \
  -d "v=0"
```

**Expected responses:**
- **201** — Working! WHEP session created successfully.
- **405** — MediaMTX has no active camera source. Wrong mediamtx config
  for your camera type, or camera not connected. Check `sudo journalctl -u mediamtx`.
- **502** — FastAPI can't reach MediaMTX. Is mediamtx running?
- **Connection refused / timeout** — nginx can't reach FastAPI. Check Pi IP and port.

### Test in the browser

1. Open `https://claw.thecastlefuncenter.com` in Chrome or Firefox
2. The video stream should appear (not a black screen)
3. Add `?debug` to the URL to see the stream status overlay with connection details

### Test from LAN (should still work)

```bash
# Direct Pi access should still work for LAN users
curl http://PI_LAN_IP:8000/stream/cam/whep \
  -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/sdp" -d "v=0"
```

## Troubleshooting

### Still getting a black screen?

**Check the proxy chain step by step:**

```bash
# 1. Is MediaMTX running on the Pi?
ssh PI "sudo systemctl status mediamtx"

# 2. Can FastAPI reach MediaMTX? (run on the Pi)
ssh PI "curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8889/cam/whep -H 'Content-Type: application/sdp' -d 'v=0'"

# 3. Can FastAPI's stream proxy handle the request? (run on the Pi)
ssh PI "curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8000/stream/cam/whep -H 'Content-Type: application/sdp' -d 'v=0'"

# 4. Can the Grafana VM reach FastAPI? (run on the Grafana VM)
ssh GRAFANA "curl -X POST http://PI_LAN_IP:8000/stream/cam/whep -H 'Content-Type: application/sdp' -d 'v=0'"

# 5. Does the public URL work?
curl -X POST https://claw.thecastlefuncenter.com/stream/cam/whep -H "Content-Type: application/sdp" -d "v=0"
```

Whichever step fails is where the problem is.

### WHEP works but video is still black?

The signaling (HTTP) works but WebRTC (UDP) is blocked. Check:

- **Router port forwarding**: Is UDP 8189 forwarded to the Pi?
- **Firewall**: Is `ufw` allowing UDP 8189? (`sudo ufw status`)
- **MediaMTX config**: Does `webrtcAdditionalHosts` contain the public domain?
- **MediaMTX config**: Is `webrtcICEUDPMuxAddress` set to `:8189`?
- **ISP/NAT issues**: Some ISPs block inbound UDP. Try from a different network.

### Browser console errors?

Open DevTools (F12) → Console tab. Look for:
- `ICE connection state: failed` → UDP path is blocked (router/firewall)
- `WHEP POST failed` or `502` → Proxy chain broken (check steps above)
- `net::ERR_CONNECTION_REFUSED` → nginx not proxying `/stream/` correctly

## Architecture diagram

```
Internet Browser
    │
    │ HTTPS (port 443)
    ▼
Grafana VM (nginx - TLS termination)
    │
    │ HTTP (port 8000, LAN)
    ▼
Raspberry Pi (FastAPI)
    │
    │ HTTP (localhost:8889)
    ▼
MediaMTX (WHEP signaling)
    │
    │ WebRTC (UDP 8189, via router port forward)
    ▼
Internet Browser (direct UDP to Pi)
```

The HTTP signaling goes through the full proxy chain. Once the WebRTC
connection is negotiated, video data flows directly over UDP between the
browser and MediaMTX on the Pi.
